one such place is the sea of a coot in
far eastern Russia
this is the island of Tallinn throughout
the long Arctic winter
it's encircled by ice but as spring
approaches that begins to break up and
seabirds that have spent the winter
feeding out on the open ocean far to the
south begin to return
it's isolated position and steep cliffs
make Tallinn a perfect nesting site the
tufted puffins arrive first these are
the Pacific cousins of our less
spectacular Atlantic species Horn
puffins soon follow in all 14 different
species return to Tallinn each spring
and in just a few weeks the once silent
cliffs come alive to the calls of 4
million breeding seabirds
this is a multi-storey avian sitting a
slow thing in these Dench colonies after
having spent a largely solitary life at
sea provides the birds with the social
stimulation that is the key to
coordinating their breeding by nesting
and laying together they ensure that
most of their chicks will leave the nest
at exactly the same time just like the
turtles this is the way they spread the
impact of predators the world's largest
Eagle stellar sea eagle a third as big
again as a golden
throughout the summer
the Eagles hunt in talons crowded
colonies riding on the updrafts they
patrol the top of the cliffs looking out
for any Kittiwake that bench is too far
from the rock face
suddenly the huge evil Stoops with the
aerial agility of a falcon
co-ordinating panic among the kittiwakes
confuses their attacker
but eagle doesn't give up
and it has got one
you